title: Centralized Hierarchies to Decentralized Networks
date: 2012-02-20 19:21:05
tags:
---
As a society, we are undergoing one of the most significant macro-level shifts in our lifetimes; the shift from centralized hierarchies to decentralized networks.<!-- more --> We're just starting to see how this affects governments, cultures, industries, and individuals. Whether you are building a tech startup or whether you are opening a coffee shop, it's imperative that you understand not just the Internet, but the mechanics and implications of networks. They will inform just about anything you create.

- <a href="http://garychou.com/" target="_blank">Gary Chou</a> | <a href="http://www.christinacacioppo.com/" target="_blank">Christina Cacioppo</a> | <a href="http://usv.com/" target="_blank">Union Square Ventures</a> |<a href="http://interactiondesign.sva.edu/classes/spring12/entrepreneurial-design/" target="_blank">Entrepreneurial Design at SVA</a>

The signal was Napster. Like an indicator wave forecasting a set of waves approaching, in June of 1999, Napster was one of the initial creative destructions forecasting the monumental change about to occur. The music industry was quickly broken and for the most part, still is. While the web has been around for only slightly over a decade, the rest of the world and the industries it contains are quickly shifting to an entirely new way of being. Music, and the entertainment industry at large was the first to get hit, and quickly the rest will follow suit.
If your vice in life is to try and accelerate these changes within industries and propel the economy and society towards the next level, the question is what's next? What companies can be built to capitalize on the shift? Simply speaking, the idea would be to build a network of engaged users that bypasses an industry that was once built on a hierarchy and supply chain.

<a href="http://www.kickstarter.com" target="_blank">Kickstarter</a> is an indication of an entirely new way of producing projects, like the old smoke signal&rdquo; marketing technique, you can now test your idea, find your market, and fund production from the best possible source &ndash; customers. The concept is nothing new, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/W._Edwards_Deming" target="_blank">D. Edwards Deming</a> preached that the customer is the most important part of the product line&rdquo; as early as the 50&prime;s, but the nearly frictionless technology of the internet and the implications of networks is creating a funding process that is entirely new. While that particular service is only in it's infancy, barely two years old, it's starting to pickup speed quickly and it's gonna be big. They hit their first two projects receiving over a milling dollars in funding a couple of weeks ago, both on the same day. It's a perfect example of how where there were once gatekeepers choosing what music, movies, or a number of other projects/products were produced, the pyramid shaped hierarchy has flipped onto it's head and now an individual can connect directly with any number of people/fans/customers, skipping middle management entirely. It's a system with no gatekeeper, much less friction, and is a close resemblance of a meritocracy. It's for the better.

There are a few key implications of networks that have already risen. The first and most obvious is the growth of social networks. For business, it has created a whole new meaning to customer feedback. Once upon a time you could only track or transfer positive/negative feedback through direct customer interaction. That world is no longer. With customers sharing their day-to-day lives and experiences with all of the their friends (or anyone that will listen) a bad review spreads fast. For business doing great things, the ones that really care about their customers, it also brings entirely new opportunity. If you are remarkable, truly noteworthy, the good news will spread fast and far. <a href="http://garyvaynerchuk.com/?166c9b90" target="_blank">Gary Vaynerchuk</a> preaches this fact. He's quick to argue that generations before us (even just our grandparents) were better suited to do business in this super-connected world. Going out of your way to please your customers, like the invention of the bakers dozen&rdquo;, can propel you to new heights with the aid of twitter. <a href="http://www.zappos.com" target="_blank">Zappos</a> would be the poster child of customer service. Case in point, there was a woman in Texas who was ripping off Zappo's generous return policy by buy a pair of shoes, wearing them out on a Saturday night, and returning them come Monday morning. While this was extreme example of a customer taking advantage of a company's policy, Zappo's let is slide. Turns out the woman was telling everyone she knew about the extraordinary return policy, and created far more free advertising and business than her shady returns took away. <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tony_Hsieh" target="_blank">Tony Hsieh</a> gets it; we're a service company that just happens to sell shoes.&rdquo;

Collaborative consumption is also a really interesting implication of networks. While it's been overrun by the Groupon goliath, the space should follow the natural curve of any disruption innovation. First a hung boom, then a huge bust, followed by a more gentle growth curve with sustainable products. Collaborative consumption also includes shared utilities such a ZipCar or Car2Go, as well as more underground movements like recent cash mobs&rdquo;.<a href="http://www.thesocialfeed.com" target="_blank">The Social Feed</a> would also fit into this category. It's the collaborative consumption of a product/service at a restaurant, with the aid of organization though SaaS. As the networks become more and more connected, consumption networks in general should get stronger and more accepted by the masses. It's also a psychological shift. While past generations have marked success by your ability to acquire stuff, the current generation is trending more towards other things, a letting mass consumption slide slightly. When psychological changes pair with technological ones, it's a good indication that big changes are in the works.