title: Education Reform
date: 2012-02-23 19:39:55
tags:
---
<p>One of the most challenging and rewarding thought experiments is imagining life (thoughts, emotions, etc.) within the context of being someone else. While usually a tool reserved for conflict resolution, negotiations or even celebrity fantasy, this concept has taken a new meaning with the exploration of the ipad app, news.me. With the help of a little technological know-how, you can now swap your news feed for someone else&rsquo;s. Dubbed &ldquo;cross-dressing&rdquo; in other technological circles, it allows you to observe and absorb the exact settings that an other person has. With the features and possibilities of content curation these days, a news feed has become a very personalized setting. The obvious example, a twitter stream. Imagine the educational perspective of being able to view all the information that the President of the United states sees in a day. While that may be a little overzealous with the amount of classified documents, the idea is the same.</p>
<p>Being able to follow someones life, mimic their activities and absorb the information that they absorb gives unlimited educational potential. To be great investment banker, you once had to plead with a broker to allow him to let you shadow him. You used to have to fetch coffee&rsquo;s and stand in the corner to get a glimpse into the life of a professional and mentorship and guidance. It&rsquo;s not the same anymore. As highly regarded professionals share more and more of their lives and stories, if you look, you can find incredible amounts of information. Want to develop the marketing prowess of Seth Godin? You can read his daily blog, view his reading list for the past year, aggregate all his Disqus comments in the click of a button and gain a never before incite into his professional work. You can see where he gets his information, and what blogs he reads. The best part, it&rsquo;s not limited to geography or social status. If you can afford access to the internet, or a daily coffee habit, you find more information than you can intake.</p>
<p>Taken to the next level, not only can you read other peoples daily thoughts, you can now participate in the discussion from anywhere in the world. <a href="http://LINK" target="_blank">Avc.com</a> is the best example of an interactive and engaged blog community that I know of, but it&rsquo;s clear there are many more. If you&rsquo;re interested in the tech-startup world or the VC community, the resources that community provides is unmatched. Fred Wilson does a good job writing about interesting and relevant tech news, even if it&rsquo;s mostly skewed to the investments of USV and there is a clear personal motivation. Not all days of the week are self centred, however, and he goes far has hosting a &ldquo;MBA Monday&rdquo; series featuring concepts and guest posts by prominent CEO&rsquo;s and founders. But the real magic is in the discussions and comments by the community of readers. Often including very accomplished people, (Seth Godin, Dennis Crowly, Eric Wahlforss, Brad Feld, Chris Dixon, Mark Suster, to name a few) comments often in the hundreds flow every day. Following the idea of collaborative consumption, these communities offer a form of collaborative learning. Often the bulletin board is littered with fake identities or aliases, and the discussions (or arguments) that develop are better than most real world classroom I&rsquo;ve been in. Most online forums tend to have their share of conflict. Something about sitting behind a computer, often with an alias as your bouncer, lets people rip their true thoughts. While some comment systems (*cough* techcrunch *cough*) attract their fair share of trolls or flamewars, there are plenty with the contrary. There is a fine line between cranky and contrarian sometimes. It&rsquo;s this tension that develops between users that lead to the spark, the creation of new outlooks, new levels of comprehension and the formation of new ideas. Discussions that reveal themselves as heated debates have better outcomes.</p>
<p>It&rsquo;s also what you do with it, how you push and measure your own development. Blogging isn&rsquo;t the narcissistic act it was once viewed as. <a href="http://cdixon.org/" target="_blank">Chris Dixon</a> sums it up well, &ldquo;I also blog a lot, and I think of it this way: I have information that comes in, and then I meet with interesting people. I measure whether or not I&rsquo;ve had an interesting day or week by my blogging productivity. So it&rsquo;s a three stage machine, right. Input raw material and information; meet with interesting people, and then learn and process that information in a post. It&rsquo;s a metric to see whether or not I&rsquo;m doing a good job.&rdquo;</p