title: Engineers Mean the World
date: 2012-03-13 19:40:53
tags:
---
Engineers rule the world. While business professionals, lawyers, and doctors all scale the ranks of a cultural hierarchy, they're all subservient to the control of an engineer. Why? Because the very ladder they are all climbing was designed and built by an engineer.

While the word "engineer" brings visions of computer scientists and bridge builders to the minds of most, the truth is that engineers are found in all shapes and sizes throughout a variety of professions. They are a professional practitioner concerned with applying scientific knowledge, mathematics and ingenuity to develop solutions for technical problems. The word is derived from the Latin roots <em>ingeniare</em> "to contrive, devise" and <em>ingenium</em> "cleverness". Truth is, it's anyone who identifies a problem and uses their skills and ingenuity to build the solution. Boiled down, it sounds vaguely familiar to a certain buzzword these days. "Entrepreneur". Todays adoption of the <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Lean-Startup-Entrepreneurs-Continuous-Innovation/dp/0307887898?tag=duckduckgo-d-20" target="_blank">lean startup</a> methodology is bringing the two professions even closer. The smartest run startups of the current day operate like the pursuit of scientific knowledge through the scientific method - complete with experiments, control groups and theory tests.

The industrial system (the one currently breaking) that created vast periods of productivity and wealth creation throughout the late 1800&rsquo;s and 1900&rsquo;s was purposely designed and built. It didn&rsquo;t come to be through creationism, and it wasn&rsquo;t assembled through dumb luck. The current network of large corporations and firms was first designed and popularized by <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederick_Winslow_Taylor" target="_blank">Frederick Taylor</a> (a mechanical engineers for the record) in the late 1880's. <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Principles_of_Scientific_Management#Summary_of_the_monograph" target="_blank">The Principles of Scientific Management</a>, a monograph from 1911, was the bible to building large scale companies using people as inter-replaceable pieces of the efficiency puzzle. It&rsquo;s purpose was to use empirical methods to decide what matters, push forward the theme of economic efficiency in the industrial age and build organizations that maximize shareholder value. The system, designed by the Taylor and build by all the founders and middle managers that followed, was the best stab at a problem to get widgets built and make those higher on the food chain fat. It worked as best it could for a long period of time, but as with anything, technology has progressed to the point of making that before it obsolete. Modern day tech has finally surged past our techniques and its time for engineers to use new tech, skills and methods to build an entirely new, optimized operating system. While it may cost a few bucks, and we will all undoubtably have to learn how to use this new system, it&rsquo;s about time to trade in for the new thing. At the very core of a commerce -from the coffee shop, to wall street, to the entire market as a whole- is a driving force to reduce inefficiencies and provide greater value. In turn, the organization recaptures the value produced as profits in return. Organizations were built because they were the best way known at the time to reduce inefficiencies and create the most profit. Find an musician you think is talented, organize a team to support them, spend a huge chunk of money on advertising and distributing the cd of the musician, buy the audience attention, and make a boat load of money on record sales. Use that money to find the next musician and repeat. It made logical sense, but does it anymore? As the internet provides increased connectivity through the shift from centralized hierarchies to de-centralized networks, it doesn&rsquo;t cost much to connect with others. Find fans or connect with customers, apart from a broadband provider, it&rsquo;s basically free. When it was once beneficial to form firms and organizations to reduce and consolidate the transaction costs between parties, it will soon become easier to preform a variety of work without the aid of a large firm. Why be a small cog in a large company machine if you can be an entire machine yourself, spending none of the traditional transaction costs, and have 100% profits going to you. If you don&rsquo;t like your boss, why even have one? All it will take is the formation of networks to allow the right parties to connect. Etsy. WorkMarket. Shapeways. The engineers are already on it. The system is changing fast. People are becoming their own brands, companies and industries are fragmenting, and there is a rapid emergence of online networks in every fashion imaginable. The frictionless exchange of information is eliminating the non-value adding costs of firms (middle management, transaction costs, etc). Some of the large companies are going to have trouble maintaining their structure and status in the coming years. Once the inefficiencies are exposed, engineers will design the better way. In his 1937 essay, <em><a href="http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-0335.1937.tb00002.x/full" target="_blank">The Nature of the Firm</a></em>, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ronald_Coase" target="_blank">Ronald Coase</a> extrapolates this to a larger extent. And about people changing their ways, after technology brings the next wave of innovation and makes it easier and cheaper to use a different system, our culture will follow. Coase&rsquo;s theories can be pushed even further. Although it may seem crazy, they can apply to nation-states too. In our hyper-connected globalized world, why do we form nation-states or political groups at all? If we don&rsquo;t need middle men to represent us internationally or to lobby laws when an entire nation can connect instantly, why is there any government at all? In a way the purpose of government in similar to that of corporations - reduce the transaction costs so that we can establish commerce with a wide group of people. As information technology sweeps through music, media, and health care, government is just another domino destined to fall. And once again, it won&rsquo;t be politicians building it, it won&rsquo;t be lawyers or lobbyists making the changes, and it won&rsquo;t company management barking any orders. Engineers will build it, and they will come.