title: Two Media Dots
date: 2012-02-10 19:16:54
tags:
---
<p>In relation to a Ted Talk &amp; Blog Post.</p>
<p>The first chunk of media is a <a href="http://www.ted.com/talks/peter_van_uhm_why_i_chose_a_gun.html" target="_blank">TED talk by Peter Van Uhm</a>, Netherlands chief of defence. Uhm makes the argument that the tool he uses to make the world a safer place is, in fact, a gun. He address the TED audience, an collection of talented individuals who by contrast use a pen, or a paint brush, or a computer, or mico-loans, to make the world a better place. After which he tells a story of his father fighting the Nazi&rsquo;s and how that led him to his work in the Amsterdam army. The story&rsquo;s climax is when his father was unable to stop a Nazi crossing a river due to a faulty, old gun. This failure of weaponry leads to his conclusion that the possession of a gun and directed use of it, leads to the current state of the world. A world which in the last 500 years has seen a decline in violence, year after year. A comparably peaceful world. The creation of the constitutional state, which empowers an army with weapons and uses a democratic system to create values, morals and laws, enforces with stronger legitimized violence. He argues that is why our world sees less acted violence every day. Summed up, the enforcement of democratically decided penalties which outweigh the use of violence.</p>
<p>The other hunk of media is a <a href="http://www.buzzmachine.com/2012/02/01/facebook-goes-public-zuckerberg-in-public-parts-wwgd/" target="_blank">blog post by Jeff Jarvis</a>, over at buzzmachine.com. He&rsquo;s written a book called Private Parts &ndash; How Sharing in the Digital Age Improves the Way we Work and Live. His story involves his very public sharing of a battle with prostate cancer. Open sharing in which he states has led to a wave of positive change, from sharing stories with others battling cancer, to the support that flocked to him, to his friends and family going to get checked for early signs of cancer themselves. So much good came from his public openness, he states, that he now asks himself about things he keeps &ldquo;private&rdquo;; is he being selfish? Publicness and sharing personal information, in the end, is about building relationships. Relationships are central to being human.</p>
<p>Jeff wrote a post on Feb 1st, 2012, that was relevant to the expected Facebook IPO announcement, it was about an interview with Mark Zuckerberg and his quest to make the world a more open and connected place. &ldquo;We hear the inherent optimism that fuels the likes of him: that with the right tools and power in the right hands, the world will keep getting better.&rdquo; Zuckerberg believes he is helping us share, which will make the world more public and lead to greater transparency and trust, accountability and integrity. While it started with FB, tools to help people share across a digital medium are exploding across the graph at near asymptotic rates. Records keep getting broken. First Twitter broke the growth record, now Pinterest.</p>
<p>The question isn&rsquo;t &lsquo;Are you completely private&rsquo;, it&rsquo;s &ldquo;which things do you want to share and which things do you not?&rdquo;</p>
<p>When Facebook started, people were still worried about privacy, they wanted control of what was shared and what was not. After a few outcries of facts being shared without permission, people are starting to care less and less about what is shared. As &ldquo;friends&rdquo; lists grow past 1000, it matters less what &ldquo;only friends&rdquo; can see versus the &ldquo;public&rdquo;. If you&rsquo;re surprised that a potential employer can Google your name, you&rsquo;re living behind the times. As people become privy to the tools available and the potential benefits of sharing information about yourself, the majority may start to catch on. People don&rsquo;t have lifelong careers with one company any more. If you can create a notable &ldquo;brand&rdquo; for yourself, the &ldquo;John Smith Brand&rdquo;, you win. The notion of wanting your information to be private, may turn into self promotion and wanting everyone look. This all gets summed up by Zucker law, a social version of Moore&rsquo;s law. It decrees: this year, people will share twice as much information as they did last year, and the next, they will share twice as much again. Foursquare checkins, Pinterest taste graphs, Instagraph photo updates; while the services will undoubtably fragment, the depth and volume is growing at a crazy rate.</p>
<p>So now, or in a few years time, the question may in fact be, &ldquo;what things don&rsquo;t you share, and why not?&rdquo;</p>
<p>To connect the two dots: If the constitutional use of a gun by an appointed state is a phycological cloud that hangs over everyone and keeps the majority from acts of violence, is the inevitable growth of sharing and the trajectory towards living a completely open digital life the new &ldquo;gun&rdquo; to keep people from straying to untrustworthy acts? If you&rsquo;re keeping something secret, why? What are you hiding? Why not share everything, as the more you share, the more relationships you can foster and the more of a fulfilled life you can have. If you are about to do something untrustworthy, and realize that in such a connected world, you are destined to get noticed by your community of peers, would that stop you? Are we heading towards a society whereby not only laws, but moral integrity is policed by a community of connected peers?</p></div>